README.md, before:

[![Actions Status](https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/App-Greple-tee/workflows/test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/App-Greple-tee/actions) [![MetaCPAN Release](https://badge.fury.io/pl/App-Greple-tee.svg)](https://metacpan.org/release/App-Greple-tee)
# NAME

App::Greple::tee - module to replace matched text by the external command result

# SYNOPSIS

    greple -Mtee command -- ...

# DESCRIPTION

Greple's **-Mtee** module sends matched text part to the given filter
command, and replace them by the command result.  The idea is derived
from the command called **teip**.  It is like bypassing partial data to
the external filter command.

Filter command follows module declaration (`-Mtee`) and terminates by
two dashes (`--`).  For example, next command call command `tr`
command with `a-z A-Z` arguments for the matched word in the data.

    greple -Mtee tr a-z A-Z -- '\w+' ...

Above command convert all matched words from lower-case to upper-case.
Actually this example itself is not so useful because **greple** can do
the same thing more effectively with **--cm** option.

By default, the command is executed as a single process, and all
matched data is sent to it mixed together.  If the matched text does
not end with newline, it is added before and removed after.  Data are
mapped line by line, so the number of lines of input and output data
must be identical.

Using **--discrete** option, individual command is called for each
matched part.  You can tell the difference by following commands.

    greple -Mtee cat -n -- copyright LICENSE
    greple -Mtee cat -n -- copyright LICENSE --discrete

Lines of input and output data do not have to be identical when used
with **--discrete** option.

# OPTIONS

- **--discrete**

    Invoke new command individually for every matched part.

- **--fillup**

    Combine a sequence of non-blank lines into a single line before
    passing them to the filter command.  Newline characters between wide
    characters are deleted, and other newline characters are replaced with
    spaces.

# WHY DO NOT USE TEIP

First of all, whenever you can do it with the **teip** command, use
it. It is an excellent tool and much faster than **greple**.

Because **greple** is designed to process document files, it has many
features that are appropriate for it, such as match area controls. It
might be worth using **greple** to take advantage of those features.

Also, **teip** cannot handle multiple lines of data as a single unit,
while **greple** can execute individual commands on a data chunk
consisting of multiple lines.

# EXAMPLE

Next command will find text blocks inside [perlpod(1)](http://man.he.net/man1/perlpod) style document
included in Perl module file.

    greple --inside '^=(?s:.*?)(^=cut|\z)' --re '^(\w.+\n)+' tee.pm

You can translate them by DeepL service by executing the above command
convined with **-Mtee** module which calls **deepl** command like this:

    greple -Mtee deepl text --to JA - -- --fillup ...

The dedicated module [App::Greple::xlate::deepl](https://metacpan.org/pod/App%3A%3AGreple%3A%3Axlate%3A%3Adeepl) is more effective
for this purpose, though.  In fact, the implementation hint of **tee**
module came from **xlate** module.

# EXAMPLE 2

Next command will find some indented part in LICENSE document.

    greple --re '^[ ]{2}[a-z][)] .+\n([ ]{5}.+\n)*' -C LICENSE

      a) distribute a Standard Version of the executables and library files,
         together with instructions (in the manual page or equivalent) on where to
         get the Standard Version.
    
      b) accompany the distribution with the machine-readable source of the Package
         with your modifications.
    

You can reformat this part by using **tee** module with **ansifold**
command:

    greple -Mtee ansifold -rsw40 --prefix '     ' -- --discrete --re ...

      a) distribute a Standard Version of
         the executables and library files,
         together with instructions (in the
         manual page or equivalent) on where
         to get the Standard Version.
    
      b) accompany the distribution with the
         machine-readable source of the
         Package with your modifications.

Using `--discrete` option is time consuming.  So you can use
`--separate '\r'` option with `ansifold` which produce single line
using CR character instead of NL.

    greple -Mtee ansifold -rsw40 --prefix '     ' --separate '\r' --

Then convert CR char to NL after by [tr(1)](http://man.he.net/man1/tr) command or some.

    ... | tr '\r' '\n'

# EXAMPLE 3

Consider a situation where you want to grep for strings from
non-header lines. For example, you may want to search for images from
the `docker image ls` command, but leave the header line.  You can do
it by following command.

    greple -Mtee grep perl -- -Mline -L 2: --discrete --all

Option `-Mline -L 2:` retrieves the second to last lines and sends
them to the `grep perl` command. Option `--discrete` is required,
but this is called only once, so there is no performance drawback.

In this case, `teip -l 2- -- grep` produces error because the number
of lines in the output is less than input. However, result is quite
satisfactory :)

# INSTALL

## CPANMINUS

    $ cpanm App::Greple::tee

# SEE ALSO

[App::Greple::tee](https://metacpan.org/pod/App%3A%3AGreple%3A%3Atee), [https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/App-Greple-tee](https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/App-Greple-tee)

[https://github.com/greymd/teip](https://github.com/greymd/teip)

[App::Greple](https://metacpan.org/pod/App%3A%3AGreple), [https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/greple](https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/greple)

[https://github.com/tecolicom/Greple](https://github.com/tecolicom/Greple)

[App::Greple::xlate](https://metacpan.org/pod/App%3A%3AGreple%3A%3Axlate)

# BUGS

The `--fillup` option may not work correctly for Korean text.

# AUTHOR

Kazumasa Utashiro

# LICENSE

Copyright © 2023 Kazumasa Utashiro.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

Commit message:

make --fillup option works with --discrete option

README.md, after:

[![Actions Status](https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/App-Greple-tee/workflows/test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/App-Greple-tee/actions) [![MetaCPAN Release](https://badge.fury.io/pl/App-Greple-tee.svg)](https://metacpan.org/release/App-Greple-tee)
# NAME

App::Greple::tee - module to replace matched text by the external command result

# SYNOPSIS

    greple -Mtee command -- ...

# DESCRIPTION

Greple's **-Mtee** module sends matched text part to the given filter
command, and replace them by the command result.  The idea is derived
from the command called **teip**.  It is like bypassing partial data to
the external filter command.

Filter command follows module declaration (`-Mtee`) and terminates by
two dashes (`--`).  For example, next command call command `tr`
command with `a-z A-Z` arguments for the matched word in the data.

    greple -Mtee tr a-z A-Z -- '\w+' ...

Above command convert all matched words from lower-case to upper-case.
Actually this example itself is not so useful because **greple** can do
the same thing more effectively with **--cm** option.

By default, the command is executed as a single process, and all
matched data is sent to it mixed together.  If the matched text does
not end with newline, it is added before and removed after.  Data are
mapped line by line, so the number of lines of input and output data
must be identical.

Using **--discrete** option, individual command is called for each
matched part.  You can tell the difference by following commands.

    greple -Mtee cat -n -- copyright LICENSE
    greple -Mtee cat -n -- copyright LICENSE --discrete

Lines of input and output data do not have to be identical when used
with **--discrete** option.

# VERSION

Version 0.99

# OPTIONS

- **--discrete**

    Invoke new command individually for every matched part.

- **--fillup**

    Combine a sequence of non-blank lines into a single line before
    passing them to the filter command.  Newline characters between wide
    characters are deleted, and other newline characters are replaced with
    spaces.

- **--blockmatch**

    Normally, the area matching the specified search pattern is sent to the 
    external command. If this option is specified, not the matched area but 
    the entire block containing it will be processed.

    For example, to send lines containing the pattern `foo` to the
    external command, you need to specify the pattern which matches to
    entire line:

        greple -Mtee cat -n -- '^.*foo.*\n'

    But with the **--blockmatch** option, it can be done as simply as
    follows:

        greple -Mtee cat -n -- foo

    With **--blockmatch** option, this module behave more like [teip(1)](http://man.he.net/man1/teip)'s
    **-g** option.

# WHY DO NOT USE TEIP

First of all, whenever you can do it with the **teip** command, use
it. It is an excellent tool and much faster than **greple**.

Because **greple** is designed to process document files, it has many
features that are appropriate for it, such as match area controls. It
might be worth using **greple** to take advantage of those features.

Also, **teip** cannot handle multiple lines of data as a single unit,
while **greple** can execute individual commands on a data chunk
consisting of multiple lines.

# EXAMPLE

Next command will find text blocks inside [perlpod(1)](http://man.he.net/man1/perlpod) style document
included in Perl module file.

    greple --inside '^=(?s:.*?)(^=cut|\z)' --re '^(\w.+\n)+' tee.pm

You can translate them by DeepL service by executing the above command
convined with **-Mtee** module which calls **deepl** command like this:

    greple -Mtee deepl text --to JA - -- --fillup ...

The dedicated module [App::Greple::xlate::deepl](https://metacpan.org/pod/App%3A%3AGreple%3A%3Axlate%3A%3Adeepl) is more effective
for this purpose, though.  In fact, the implementation hint of **tee**
module came from **xlate** module.

# EXAMPLE 2

Next command will find some indented part in LICENSE document.

    greple --re '^[ ]{2}[a-z][)] .+\n([ ]{5}.+\n)*' -C LICENSE

      a) distribute a Standard Version of the executables and library files,
         together with instructions (in the manual page or equivalent) on where to
         get the Standard Version.
    
      b) accompany the distribution with the machine-readable source of the Package
         with your modifications.
    

You can reformat this part by using **tee** module with **ansifold**
command:

    greple -Mtee ansifold -rsw40 --prefix '     ' -- --discrete --re ...

      a) distribute a Standard Version of
         the executables and library files,
         together with instructions (in the
         manual page or equivalent) on where
         to get the Standard Version.
    
      b) accompany the distribution with the
         machine-readable source of the
         Package with your modifications.

Using `--discrete` option is time consuming.  So you can use
`--separate '\r'` option with `ansifold` which produce single line
using CR character instead of NL.

    greple -Mtee ansifold -rsw40 --prefix '     ' --separate '\r' --

Then convert CR char to NL after by [tr(1)](http://man.he.net/man1/tr) command or some.

    ... | tr '\r' '\n'

# EXAMPLE 3

Consider a situation where you want to grep for strings from
non-header lines. For example, you may want to search for images from
the `docker image ls` command, but leave the header line.  You can do
it by following command.

    greple -Mtee grep perl -- -Mline -L 2: --discrete --all

Option `-Mline -L 2:` retrieves the second to last lines and sends
them to the `grep perl` command. Option `--discrete` is required,
but this is called only once, so there is no performance drawback.

In this case, `teip -l 2- -- grep` produces error because the number
of lines in the output is less than input. However, result is quite
satisfactory :)

# INSTALL

## CPANMINUS

    $ cpanm App::Greple::tee

# SEE ALSO

[App::Greple::tee](https://metacpan.org/pod/App%3A%3AGreple%3A%3Atee), [https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/App-Greple-tee](https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/App-Greple-tee)

[https://github.com/greymd/teip](https://github.com/greymd/teip)

[App::Greple](https://metacpan.org/pod/App%3A%3AGreple), [https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/greple](https://github.com/kaz-utashiro/greple)

[https://github.com/tecolicom/Greple](https://github.com/tecolicom/Greple)

[App::Greple::xlate](https://metacpan.org/pod/App%3A%3AGreple%3A%3Axlate)

# BUGS

The `--fillup` option may not work correctly for Korean text.

# AUTHOR

Kazumasa Utashiro

# LICENSE

Copyright © 2023 Kazumasa Utashiro.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
